Microsoft have just released details of
their brand new Cubit which will form
the basis of their future Quant
computers and it's really interesting
because it's the first ever Cubit that
uses an amazing state of matter called a
topological superconductor or what
they're calling a Topper conductor the
reason this is exciting is this material
has been theoretical for nearly a 100
years until now and the reason people
have been interested in building quantum
computers from it is because of one
special property resistance to noise
basically to build a qu computer need
cubits and these cubits need to be built
out of some kind of quantum system with
two states say the energy levels of an
atom or the up down spin of an electron
things like that but the trouble with
these states is the world is full of
Rogue energy that can disrupt them
things like electromagnetic waves the
two states of Microsoft's topological
Cubit is called parity and it's
basically whether there's an even or odd
number of electrons inside a thin wire
of this Topo conductor but a topo
conductor spreads this information to
the ends of the wire which means it's
less likely to get disrupted by
electromagnetic radiation which would
hit one point of the wire at a time and
is less likely to hit both ends at the
same time if you're building a Quant
computer you want your cubits to have
the lowest error rate possible so this
resistance to noise is a really
desirable property but it's taken a
really long time to build this Cubit
because it's been so difficult to
engineer this theoretical topological
superconductor cuz every single atom
needs to be in the right place but this
is finally evidence that it works if you
want to find out more I've got a longer
Deep dive video explaining all the
different aspects of Microsoft's
topological quantum computer and
subscribe if you want to stay up to date
with the latest in Quantum computing